frontend/README.md, before:

# Endstate Frontend

A sleek, modern Vue 3 + Tailwind CSS frontend demo with chat and interactive knowledge graph.

## Quick Start

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```

Open http://localhost:3000

## Features

- **Collapsible Sidebar** - Smooth animations, responsive design. Click sidebar items to navigate.
- **Tab System** - Switch between Chat and Knowledge Graph views (header tabs or sidebar)
- **Chat Interface** - Placeholder UI with mock responses and typing indicators
- **Interactive Knowledge Graph** - D3.js force-directed graph with:
  - Drag nodes to reposition
  - Zoom in/out with buttons or scroll
  - Click nodes for details
  - Search/filter functionality

## Controls

### Sidebar
- Click the chevron icon to collapse/expand
- Click menu items to navigate between Chat and Knowledge Graph

### Chat
- Type message and press Enter to send
- Shift+Enter for new line
- Mock responses simulate AI delay

### Knowledge Graph
- Drag nodes to move them
- Scroll to zoom in/out
- Click nodes to see details
- Use search to filter nodes
- Zoom buttons in top-right corner

## Tech Stack

- Vue 3 (Composition API)
- TypeScript
- Tailwind CSS
- D3.js (graph visualization)
- Vite (build tool)
- Lucide (icons)

Commit message:

refactor(frontend): refactor frontend to use backend-only data fetching
- Remove all hardcoded demo data from KnowledgeGraph component
- Replace mock dashboard stats with real data from /api/stats/dashboard
- Move LLM chat calls from frontend to backend /api/chat endpoint
- Remove GoogleGenerativeAI SDK from frontend (security improvement)
- Update API service layer with new backend endpoints
- Add new backend endpoints for chat and dashboard stats

Frontend now only visualizes data from database without direct interference.

frontend/README.md, after:

# Endstate Frontend

A sleek, modern Vue 3 + Tailwind CSS frontend demo with chat and interactive knowledge graph.

## Quick Start

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```

Open http://localhost:3000

## Features

- **Collapsible Sidebar** - Smooth animations, responsive design. Click sidebar items to navigate.
- **Tab System** - Switch between Chat and Knowledge Graph views (header tabs or sidebar)
- **Chat Interface** - AI-powered chat via backend LLM integration with web search support
- **Interactive Knowledge Graph** - D3.js force-directed graph with:
  - Data loaded from Neo4j database
  - Drag nodes to reposition
  - Zoom in/out with buttons or scroll
  - Click nodes for details
  - Search/filter functionality

## Controls

### Sidebar
- Click the chevron icon to collapse/expand
- Click menu items to navigate between Chat and Knowledge Graph

### Chat
- Type message and press Enter to send
- Shift+Enter for new line
- Toggle web search with the globe icon
- Responses powered by backend LLM integration

### Knowledge Graph
- Data loaded from Neo4j database via backend API
- Drag nodes to move them
- Scroll to zoom in/out
- Click nodes to see details
- Use search to filter nodes
- Zoom buttons in top-right corner
- Refresh button to reload data from database

## Tech Stack

- Vue 3 (Composition API)
- TypeScript
- Tailwind CSS
- D3.js (graph visualization)
- Vite (build tool)
- Lucide (icons)
