DEPLOYMENT.md, before:

# Deployment Guide: Endstate Live Demo

Deploy Endstate to the cloud using free tiers.

## 1. Database: Neo4j Aura (Free Tier)

1. Go to [Neo4j Aura](https://neo4j.com/aura/) and create a free account
2. Create a "Neo4j AuraDB Free" instance
3. **Download credentials (CSV file)** - you'll need:
   - Connection URL (starts with `neo4j+s://`)
   - Username (usually `neo4j`)
   - Password

## 2. LLM: Google Gemini

1. Get an API key from [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/)
2. Ensure access to `gemini-2.0-flash-lite` or similar models

## 3. Backend: Render (Free Tier)

1. Create a [Render](https://render.com) account
2. Click **New +** > **Web Service**
3. Connect your GitHub repository
4. Configure:
   - **Runtime**: `Docker`
   - **Dockerfile Path**: `backend/Dockerfile`
   - **Docker Context**: `.`
5. Set Environment Variables:
   - `LLM_PROVIDER`: `gemini`
   - `GOOGLE_API_KEY`: (your Gemini API key)
   - `NEO4J_URI`: (your Neo4j Aura connection URL)
   - `NEO4J_USERNAME`: (usually `neo4j`)
   - `NEO4J_PASSWORD`: (your Neo4j password)
   - `PORT`: `8000`
6. Deploy and copy your service URL (e.g., `https://endstate-backend.onrender.com`)

## 4. Frontend: Vercel (Free Tier)

1. Create a [Vercel](https://vercel.com) account
2. Import your GitHub repository
3. Framework Preset: `Vite`, root directory: `frontend`
4. **Environment Variables**:
   - `VITE_API_URL`: (your Render backend URL)
5. Deploy!

## 5. Using the Live Demo

1. Navigate to your Vercel URL
2. If using "Bring Your Own Key" architecture:
   - Click **Open Settings**
   - Paste your **Gemini API Key** and **Neo4j Aura Credentials**
   - Click **Save Changes**
3. Start chatting! Your data is stored privately in your Neo4j Aura instance

---

> [!TIP]
> This "Bring Your Own Key" architecture ensures the live demo is completely free for the maintainer while keeping user data perfectly isolated.

## Alternative: Local Development

For local development with Neo4j:

```bash
# Option 1: Use Neo4j Aura (cloud)
# Set environment variables in .env

# Option 2: Run Neo4j locally with Docker
docker run -d \
  --name neo4j \
  -p 7474:7474 -p 7687:7687 \
  -e NEO4J_AUTH=neo4j/password123 \
  neo4j:latest
```

Commit message:

Fix OR issues, ollama is now launched only w profile set

DEPLOYMENT.md, after:

# Deployment Guide: Endstate Live Demo

Deploy Endstate to the cloud using free tiers.

## 1. Database: Neo4j Aura (Free Tier)

1. Go to [Neo4j Aura](https://neo4j.com/aura/) and create a free account
2. Create a "Neo4j AuraDB Free" instance
3. **Download credentials (CSV file)** - you'll need:
   - Connection URL (starts with `neo4j+s://`)
   - Username (usually `neo4j`)
   - Password

## 2. LLM: Google Gemini

1. Get an API key from [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/)
2. Ensure access to `gemini-2.0-flash-lite` or similar models

## 3. Backend: Render (Free Tier)

1. Create a [Render](https://render.com) account
2. Click **New +** > **Web Service**
3. Connect your GitHub repository
4. Configure:
   - **Runtime**: `Docker`
   - **Dockerfile Path**: `backend/Dockerfile`
   - **Docker Context**: `.`
5. Set Environment Variables:
   - `LLM_PROVIDER`: `gemini`
   - `GOOGLE_API_KEY`: (your Gemini API key)
   - `NEO4J_URI`: (your Neo4j Aura connection URL)
   - `NEO4J_USERNAME`: (usually `neo4j`)
   - `NEO4J_PASSWORD`: (your Neo4j password)
   - `PORT`: `8000`
6. Deploy and copy your service URL (e.g., `https://endstate-backend.onrender.com`)

## 4. Frontend: Vercel (Free Tier)

1. Create a [Vercel](https://vercel.com) account
2. Import your GitHub repository
3. Framework Preset: `Vite`, root directory: `frontend`
4. **Environment Variables**:
   - `VITE_API_URL`: (your Render backend URL)
5. Deploy!

## 5. Using the Live Demo

1. Navigate to your Vercel URL
2. If using "Bring Your Own Key" architecture:
   - Click **Open Settings**
   - Paste your **Gemini API Key** and **Neo4j Aura Credentials**
   - Click **Save Changes**
3. Start chatting! Your data is stored privately in your Neo4j Aura instance

---

> [!TIP]
> This "Bring Your Own Key" architecture ensures the live demo is completely free for the maintainer while keeping user data perfectly isolated.

## Alternative: Local Development

For local development with Neo4j:

```bash
# Option 1: Use Neo4j Aura (cloud)
# Set environment variables in .env

# Option 2: Run Neo4j locally with Docker
docker run -d \
  --name neo4j \
  -p 7474:7474 -p 7687:7687 \
  -e NEO4J_AUTH=neo4j/password123 \
  neo4j:latest

---

> [!TIP]
> **Saving Resources**: If you are using Cloud LLMs (Gemini/OpenRouter), you can keep the local Ollama container disabled by not setting `COMPOSE_PROFILES=ollama`. 

```
